Problems that can be solved using technology

The many opportunities provided to us by technology are largely used to solve issues that an orangisation or a simple people is having.
However, that same technology can be applied to help remedy a variety of wider challenges facing society, rom healthcare to environmental 
sustainability – and technology leaders can play an important part in driving that change through innovative thinking and collaboration. 

Here are some of the ways technology will help solving some major global problems.

1. Education

Smart classroom technology is breaking down the walls of the traditional classroom and opening up new opportunities for students and teachers. 
For many students, especially those in remote areas, developments in cloud, video conferencing, and wireless technology can offer access to classes, 
subjects, and teachers they might otherwise have never been able to reach. 

Increasingly fast internet and advanced network coverage are also providing those who cannot enrol in school or university the chance to access free 
online courses, or even self-teach through sites like Wikipedia and YouTube. 

Virtual Reality technology will play a critical role as a training tool for workers displaced by automation, and for disciplines such as medicine or
engineering where programs simulating real life can provide essential “hands-on” experience.

2. Poverty

Technology can help to reduce poverty by creating more jobs and allowing those in developing countries to reach a wider market. Having access to the 
internet, combined with digital literacy, can open up more opportunities for more people to economically support themselves. 

3. Public Safety

A range of technologies can help to increase public safety throughout the world. Location-based emergency communications and apps can allow those in 
danger to make their whereabouts known and seek help from law enforcement or others nearby. 

4. Healthcare

The digitisation of hospitals and other healthcare facilities will see a largely paper-based industry transition to more efficient Electronic Medical 
Records (EMRs), allowing clinicians to access records from anywhere, as well as interact with patients and colleagues – regardless of their location 
– to better provide collaborative care. EMRs will improve the patient experience, reduce costs for hospitals, and lead to higher quality care around 
the world.

Blockchain technology and the secure ledger it provides can be used to resolve issues of security, scalability, and privacy in the healthcare sector. 
Solutions include counterfeit drug prevention, validation and payment of claims, and improving the accountability and transparency of clinical trials.

Here are some problem solving ways but there are a lot more that this.
